Title: BlackRock’s Bitcoin ETF inflows $269M, marking a 5-week high
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/blackrock-biggest-btc-etf-inflow-in-month?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

Fidelity and Morgan Stanley’s Bitcoin ETFs also saw a combined $68.2 million in inflows, while four other Bitcoin ETFs also tallied inflows on Thursday.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

Investors piled $269.3 million into BlackRock’s iShares Bitcoin Trust on Thursday, in its best-performing day since early March, around the time the US-Iran war started to kick into high gear.

The inflows helped to end two days of net outflows among the 12 US spot Bitcoin ETFs, which recorded a net inflow of $358.1 million.

Bitcoin ETF inflows are just one way to gauge retail and institutional demand for Bitcoin.

The Fidelity Wise Origin Bitcoin Fund (FBTC) brought in the second most inflows at $53.3 million, while the newMorgan Stanley Bitcoin Trust(MSBT) was the next biggest contributor, recording $14.9 million on its second day of trading, according todatafrom Farside Investors.

The Bitcoin ETFs issued by Bitwise and ARK 21Shares saw $11.7 million and $4.8 million worth of inflows, while Franklin Templeton and VanEck’s Bitcoin products tallied around $2 million.

BlackRock’s IBIT has now seen $1.5 billion worth of net inflows this year, withstanding a broadercrypto market pullback,which has seen Bitcoin’s price fall from a 2026 high of $97,000 to $72,100 at the time of writing.

BlackRock’s digital assets head,Robert Mitchnick,said in March that investors ofBlackRock’s IBIThave shown to be “disproportionately long-term buy and hold” investors — even when there’s been strong selling pressure elsewhere in the Bitcoin ecosystem.

Related:Bitcoin may hit $110K as Strategy absorbs nearly 3x new BTC supply

Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley’s digital asset head, Amy Oldenburg,notedin an interview with Bloomberg on Thursday that MSBT was the institutional bank’s best-performing ETF launch ever.

“This is just the first of a long roadmap of new products on the asset management side,”  Oldenburg said.

Morgan Stanley has alsofiled to lista staked Ether (ETH) ETF and Solana (SOL) ETF.

With the latest day of inflows, US spot Bitcoin ETFs are now close to tipping back to a year-to-date net inflow.

The Bitcoin ETFsfinished 2025 at $56.59 billionin net inflows and are currently at $56.51 billion, meaning that they’re just $80 million away from clawing back to their inflow figures at the start of the year.

Magazine:Bitcoin may face hard fork over any attempt to freeze Satoshi’s coins

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.