Title: US down to 'last chance' to pass CLARITY Act before 2030: Lummis
Source: Cointelegraph
URL: https://cointelegraph.com/news/us-clarity-act-crypto-regulations-cynthia-lummis-senator?utm_source=rss_feed&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss_partner_inbound

United States Senator Cynthia Lummis said the country should not risk its financial future by further delaying the CLARITY Act.

Cointelegraph in your social feed

The United States government must pass the CLARITY Act, which aims to provide the crypto industry with clearer regulatory oversight, soon, or risk waiting almost another four years to move the industry forward, according to US Senator Cynthia Lummis.

“This is our last chance to pass the Clarity Act until at least 2030,” Lummis, a well-known crypto advocate,saidin an X post on Friday.

“We can’t afford to surrender America’s financial future,” she added. The comments come as crypto industry participants begin to worry that the bill’s chances of passing this year are narrowing, with US midterm elections in November potentially changing congressional priorities and slowing momentum on the highly anticipated crypto legislation.

The former White House AI and crypto czar, David Sacks, alsochimedin on Thursday with a similar view to Lummis.

“The time to act is now. Senate Banking, and then the full Senate, should pass market structure. I’m confident that they will. And then President Trump will sign this landmark bill into law,” Sacks said.

Many industry participants have argued that the passage of legislation aimed at clarifying which regulators oversee parts of the crypto industry could lead to greater innovation in the US and potentially increase demand for crypto assets among retail investors.

A16z Crypto managing partner Chris Dixon reiterated that view in a post,sayingthat “when rules are defined, both consumers and entrepreneurs win.”

A wide range of sectors in the crypto industry expect the move to be positive.

Web3 gaming giant Immutable founder Robbie Fergusonsaidjust days before, on April 3, that “the CLARITY Act will make the last decade of growth in gaming look like a joke.”

On Friday, CoinbaseCEO Brian Armstrong, who withdrew the crypto exchange’s support for the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act in January, said “it’s time” for the legislation to pass after months of delays.

Meanwhile, Coinbase chief legal officer Paul Grewal said on April 2 that the CLARITY Act could benearing a markup hearingin the US Senate Banking Committee. However, he noted that progress hinges on resolving disagreements over stablecoin yield.

Related:CFTC unveils innovation task force members in crypto clarity push

Regulators are also voicing their support for the legislation.

US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Paul Atkinssaidin a post on the same day that, “It's time for Congress to future-proof against rogue regulators & advance comprehensive market structure legislation to President Trump's desk.”

Magazine:Bitcoin quantum-safe without upgrade? CZ’s 2031 crypto vision: Hodler’s Digest, April 5 – 11

Cointelegraph covers fintech, blockchain and Bitcoin bringing you the latest crypto news and analyses on the future of money.

Cointelegraph is committed to providing independent, high-quality journalism across the crypto, blockchain, AI, and fintech industries. To support open access to our website and sustain editorial operations, certain commercial or partner references may appear on our site. These arrangements help maintain an accessible platform and do not result in additional costs to readers.

All news, reviews, and analysis are produced with full journalistic independence and integrity. For more details on our standards and processes, please read ourEditorial Policy.